Hello, dear listeners. Let's get acquainted.
My name is Galina Kondrova. I am a candidate for Economic Sciences, a lecturer.
Today I will read a lecture on the reflection of economic activities on the accounts of the accounting of Russian standards.
Our lecture will consist of three parts.
The first part is a balance sheet of the assets and obligations of the accounting organization.
The second part is a system of accounts and a method of double-recording.
The third part is a synthetic and analytical account.
The purpose and purpose of the video lecture is to inform you about the accounting objects and their reflection in the balance sheet of the organization.
To learn how the movement of the assets and obligations of the organization is registered on the accounts of the accounting.
To learn how to reflect economic operations on the accounts and to form the simplest balance sheet of the organization.
All this will help you in your financial service, in your interaction with the accountant, with whom you communicate in the system of management of the organization.
This will allow you to perform your own responsibilities in the system of management.
The first part is a balance sheet of the assets and obligations of the accounting organization.
First of all, let's stop at the accounting system of management, which it occupies, and decide on the composition of the users of the accounting results.
I would like to say a few words about the history of the emergence of accounting.
Of course, the accounting system of management arose a long time ago, more than 6,000 years ago.
But the scientific formation of accounting is associated with the name of Lucca Pacioli, an Italian monk who wrote a scientific book in 1494.
One of the chapters in this book was called the treatise on accounts and records.
In 1994, the whole of humanity celebrated the 500th anniversary of this book.
And it was in this book that Lucca Pacioli generalized the experience accumulated by humanity at the time of writing,
and in particular those principles that still apply to the accounting system today.
For example, a principle such as double record.
We will talk about this during our lectures.
Now the accounting system has differentiated, and we can talk about several types of accounting.
These are, first of all, operational accounting, statistical accounting, tax accounting, and accounting accounting itself.
Accounting is engaged in all these types of accounting.
One way or another, certain types of accounting are made for each of these types of accounting.
But, of course, the basis of accounting is accounting accounting.
But accounting accounting is now in the middle of the 20th century not the same as Lucca Pacioli.
It has two main directions.
This is accounting financial accounting and accounting management accounting.
I will briefly dwell on the features of all these types of accounting.
Operational accounting is used for the operational acquisition of information that is necessary for the current management of an organization and its units.
For example, operational accounting is conducted in relation to those types of property that are not our property, not our property.
For example, we are a warehouse farm and provide warehouse services for other organizations.
We own warehouses, equipment, transport.
Employees provide the appropriate services for loading, unloading, and transport work.
But the material goods and valuables that are on the shelves in our warehouse are not our property.
But how to ensure the control over the safety of this property that does not belong to us?
And this is where the operational accounting is organized.
The property when it is delivered to the warehouse is registered in the corresponding book, magazine, and newspaper.
Its quantity, its value, location, the client from whom this property came.
The same is true when the property is sold.
The sale operation is carried out promptly.
At the same time, this property is not our property and is not an object of accounting monitoring.
In accounting accounting, the objects of observation, and we will talk about this later, are only the property and obligations of our organization.
Statistical accounting studies and summarizes the mass phenomena and their patterns of financial activities of organizations in public life and in nature.
An accountant compiles certain forms of statistical accounting,
including the composition of the labor collective, the production of products, and other necessary information,
which is collected by the relevant units of the Russian State.
Statistical accounting has its own ways of collecting and processing information.
Based on the forms that the accountant presents to the regional statistical bodies,
the analysis of industries, the work of industries, and, in general, of the entire national economy of any country is carried out.
Statistical accounting is carried out in almost all countries of the world.
Statistical accounting is designed to collect information and to form a tax base for the control of the correctness of calculations
and payment by taxpayers of various types of taxes in the state, regional, and local budgets.
Statistical accounting also has its own peculiarities.
It is carried out not for the purpose of the owner, not for the purpose of managing the organization,
but for the purpose of replenishing the corresponding state budgets.
It also has its own peculiarities, and the accountant must also be engaged in the formation of accounting by tax accounting.
And the main activity of the accountant is accounting.
Statistical accounting has its own peculiarities that distinguish it from other types of accounting.
First of all, a very important feature is the documentary design of all economic operations.
Each economic operation is designed with the corresponding primary document.
For example, we talked about commodity and material values that do not belong to us,
but their receipt is reflected in our magazine, book, where we register for the control of the security of this property.
The same thing happens with our property, but those documents that accompany the receipt of this property and its movement through the enterprise
are sent to the accounting office for reflection on the accounts of the accounting account.
All economic operations are reflected continuously.
The completeness of the reflection of economic operations is also one of the most important features of accounting.
And, of course, the corresponding methods and techniques.
First of all, these are the methods, as I said, double record, accounting, accounting balance, and others, which we will talk about a little later.
The main goal of accounting over the centuries, starting from the 15th century, was the same goal,
which is an adequate reflection of the property of the owner and his calculations with the participants of the economic turnover.
From this definition, from this goal, we can say that the objects of accounting are the property of the organization,
the obligations of the organization and economic operations that accompany the movement of property and obligations,
both within the organization and beyond it, into the external environment.
As I said, by the middle of the 20th century, accounting was divided into two directions, accounting financial accounting and accounting management accounting.
What are the features of these two types of accounting?
Accounting financial accounting is a system of collecting accounting information that provides accounting registration and registration of all economic operations and the composition of accounting financial accounting.
It should be noted that users of accounting financial accounting are both internal and external users.
Internal users include, first of all, the owners of the organization and the management of the organization,
which needs the accounting data, for example, the owner, in order to determine the opportunities of the organization in generating profits,
and the profit is the source of dividends for the owners.
For the management, the results of accounting financial accounting provide information for making competent management decisions.
External users are much more diverse than internal users, but they are also the main consumers of the results of accounting financial accounting.
Here I would like to focus on three main subgroups of external users.
These are those with financial interests, potential real investors who loan our organization to banks.
They risk their own funds invested in the activities of our organization.
Therefore, they are the most active external users who are interested in accounting financial accounting of our organization.
The second subgroup is users with indirect financial interests.
This subgroup is the most numerous.
Tax authorities and insurance companies are included here.
Our customers and buyers are also included here.
Suppliers and contractors are included here.
For example, the Customs Committee and other organizations are included here.
They set different goals in analyzing the activities of our organization and the results of accounting financial accounting.
For example, our suppliers and contractors are interested in whether our organization is capable of paying
and whether it is able to temporarily reduce the debt on commodity and material values supplied by our suppliers.
For example, a group of external users, such as our employees, is interested in whether the salary received in this organization will be stable.
Insurance companies are interested in our activities in terms of, let's say, the correctness of the agreement on insurance of property, and so on.
The third subgroup is organizations that are not financially interested in our activities, but they also use our accounting.
First of all, the statistical bodies, which I have already mentioned above.
These are audit firms.
According to the Law on Audit, an auditor or an audit firm in the Russian Federation should not be financially interested in the activities of our organization.
Since the activity of an audit firm is associated with the confirmation of the credibility of accounting, there can be no biased opinion here.
Also, an arbitration court may require accounting financial accountability to resolve various disputes during the business cycle.
Accounting accounting accounting, unlike accounting financial accounting, has its own tasks and a circle of users.
If accounting financial accounting is carried out in the obligatory order in all organizations, without exception,
accounting financial accounting is intended for collecting such information that is only necessary for internal users.
And the accounting financial accounting data is detailed.
Therefore, external users cannot be admitted to the results of accounting financial accounting.
Only internal users can use accounting financial accounting information.
What is detailed here?
For example, the structure of costs, the cost of production in terms of types.
If in accounting financial accounting we give the total revenue and the cost of production provided by us,
then in accounting financial accounting we collect this information in terms of individual types of production.
And we can calculate the structure of the cost of each type of production according to the accounting financial accounting data.
This is very important information in competitive competition.
With free competition, this information has a serious impact on the decision-making of our competitors.
Therefore, accounting financial accounting information is strictly confidential and must be protected from unauthorized access to it.
So, we have seen the basic types of accounting.
As you can see, an accountant in his activity leads a rather large accounting direction.
Of course, accounting financial accounting is the basis on which we will dwell in more detail today.
So, the second question in this section is the economic activity of the organization as an item of accounting.
What is an item of accounting?
Here we are talking about the fact that the item is the production, economic and financial activities of the organization.
All the production and economic activities of the organization can be divided into separate economic operations.
A separate economic operation is an action that reflects economic facts, transactions, calculations,
the results of financial activities in the composition and placement of the property of the organization, as well as on the sources of its formation.
Through economic operations, the property and obligations of the organization are changed.
These changes occur in three main spheres of activity.
You probably already know well about these spheres of activity.
I remind you that this is the supply sphere, the production sphere and the production implementation sphere.
These three spheres influence the entire activity of the organization, and our economic operations are formed in them.
For example, the supply sphere.
In it, the enterprise receives the material resources that are necessary for the activity.
Supply of materials and raw materials from the supplier.
Here is one of the economic operations.
Materials from the supplier have arrived at the warehouse.
Economic operation.
We increased our property in the form of materials.
At the same time, our debt to the supplier has increased, if the accounts for these materials have not yet been paid.
For example, in the production sphere, the same materials are released for the production of products.
The movement of materials from the warehouse to the organization's warehouse has taken place.
After the production of finished products, the finished products were released.
The finished products were delivered to the organization's warehouse.
The third sphere of implementation is a very important sphere.
It is no less important than the production sphere,
because it is in it that the financial result of the organization's activities is formed.
Profit, that is, the difference between the income and expenses of the organization.
All expenses were formed in the first two spheres,
in the supply sphere and in the production sphere.
Only in the third sphere, in the sphere of implementation,
we receive income that should cover all expenses that we have made earlier.
Then we will get profit, that is, we will increase our capital.
In the sphere of implementation, there is an operation called
«The product is loaded to the buyer».
This is an economic operation that will change the composition of our property.
The product is lost, but we have received a profit for this product, a certain income.
Or, if we sell on time or with a reduction in the future periods of time for the position of the buyer,
then there is a debtor's debt to the buyer in front of us for the revenue of the sold product.
So, let's look at it in more detail.
I said that an economic operation affects the property and obligations of the organization.
So what is the property of our organization?
We will give a characteristic of this property and a characteristic of its composition and location.
This is the third question of our topic.
Here we must very well imagine that the property is divided into two large groups.
These are non-returnable assets and returnable assets.
We will now look at the non-returnable assets in more detail.
They include basic funds, non-material assets, investments in non-returnable assets,
long-term financial investments, and other non-returnable assets.
Basic funds are a very important part of our property.
Basic funds are labor resources that are used for a long period of time
for the production of products, the execution of work, and the provision of services,
as well as in the field of management of the organization.
What are the basic funds?
These are, first of all, buildings, structures, gear devices,
working power machines and equipment, measuring and regulating devices,
computing equipment, transport, and so on.
The composition of the basic funds of our organization is largely determined by the business property of our organization.
For example, agricultural organizations have specific types of basic funds,
such as planting, gardens, vineyards, and so on.
In the case of the library, such types of basic funds will be treated as books,
as one of the main funds in the library activity.
There is a specific business property in the composition of the basic funds.
Basic funds, as I said, are used for a long period of time.
The accounting period of more than one year is considered long.
At the same time, basic funds do not change their appearance
and transfer their cost to the cost of the product by amortization,
during the period of useful use.
Two basic concepts should be distinguished, which are often confused, unfortunately.
Wear and amortization.
Wear is the loss of basic funds, their consumer properties and initial cost.
Physical and moral wear are different.
Physical wear can be complete or partial.
With complete physical wear, the basic fund is liquidated and replaced with a new one.
Partial wear is replaced by the repair of the basic fund.
For example, we have a vehicle that was hit by a road accident and is not to be repaired
due to the fact that it is almost completely damaged.
In this case, it will be liquidated, that is, its physical wear has occurred.
At the same time, this vehicle could function normally,
and then, for example, for 5 years, if the period of useful use of this vehicle is 5 years,
we will maintain the functionality of this basic fund by carrying out various types of repairs.
Repairs can be of current, medium, or capital nature.
And for each basic fund, a schedule for such repairs is assigned.
Please note that the concept of wear is a technical concept.
It is very important to replace the basic fund that has already become unusable and is physically worn by a new basic fund.
Technical personnel monitor this.
Another type of wear is moral.
It is associated with scientific and technical progress and the emergence of new basic funds of the same functional purpose,
but with new properties and capabilities.
For example, in the field of computer technology, a computer can still be physically operable,
but it already has moral wear, because there are more powerful modern computers,
which allow to implement more modern functions from a scientific and technical point of view.
Therefore, despite the fact that the computer seems to be operable,
it can be replaced by a more powerful one, according to technical characteristics,
such as a capacity of RAM, processor speed, and so on.
Amortization.
If physical and moral wear is a concept observed by the technical personnel of the organization,
amortization is a concept associated with accounting.
What is amortization?
It is a gradual transfer of the initial cost of the basic funds during their operation to the cost of the finished product, service and work.
Amortization is a monetary expression of the size of the amortization of the basic funds, including cost.
By means of amortization, the organization compensates for its costs by using the objects of the basic funds.
For example, we purchased a vehicle worth 200,000 rubles,
and we plan to use it for 5 years.
We have incurred costs, but we will not today add these costs to the cost of the product,
to the cost of the produced product, but we will add them evenly, in parts, throughout the entire period of time, for 5 years.
And if we use a linear method of amortization, then every year we will deduct 40,000 rubles for the costs of the production of the finished product.
And again, not in one month of the year, but 1.12 in every month of the year.
That is, we will divide 40,000 by 12 and add this amount to the cost of our product.
Thus, we will offset the costs for the purchase and operation of the basic fund as part of the revenue received for our product.
The normative documents on accounting provide for four methods of amortization.
This is a linear method, a method of writing off the cost of the product in proportion to the volume,
a method of reducing the remainder, and a method of writing off the cost in terms of the number of years of useful use.
The first method is linear, it also includes amortization and the calculation of the tax base,
since the tax account recognizes the linear method of amortization.
But there are three other methods, these are methods of accelerated amortization.
Tax accounting has slightly different tasks.
Tax accounting wants to receive payments in time to the budget and as evenly as possible,
and we want to quickly offset the funds that are spent on the acquisition of the basic funds.
This is very often necessary for the development of certain industries.
Therefore, additionally, in addition to linear, there are three more methods of amortization,
which an organization can choose to include in its cost list amortization calculations on the basic funds.
This allows, for example, to draw attention to certain industries in which equipment must be re-equipped,
or to change the technological processes, replace them from manual to automatic, automated, and so on.
As I said, the basic funds are very diverse.
These are computers, cars, buildings, and so on.
Each of these basic funds has its own amortization period.
For example, a building can be operated, depending on its design features and materials,
which range from 50 to 100 years.
A transport vehicle can be operated from 5 to 10 years.
A computer can also operate from 5 to 10 years.
And other objects of the basic funds.
The second object outside of the turnover assets is non-material assets.
Non-material assets appeared only in the 20th century.
They were not present in the times of Kipchoge.
These are objects of long-term use, that is, for more than one year.
They have a monetary value, bring income to the organization, but are not material values of the organization.
What is the non-material asset?
These are, first of all, the rights to use land plots, natural resources.
These are patents, that is, documents that authorize the state recognition of technical solutions.
These are licenses, that is, permission to conduct some types of economic activities, including educational, medical, and so on.
These are know-how, that is, technologies that were developed, for example, at our enterprise.
Or bought from other organizations.
Non-material assets, as basic funds, transfer their initial value to the product during the term of useful use.
For example, we received a license to conduct activities for 5 years.
Then all costs associated with obtaining this license will be equal for 5 years,
written off for the cost of the products, work, or services produced by us.
In addition to these two very important objects of non-turnover assets, that is, basic funds and non-material assets,
we have such assets as investment in non-turnover assets.
The fact is that both basic funds and non-material assets go through the process of their introduction into operation.
And at the stage of introduction into operation, basic funds and non-material assets are nothing more than investment in non-turnover assets.
For example, we purchased equipment for a construction workshop and transferred it to the assembly.
In addition to the cost of the equipment itself, we will spend on loading and unloading work, on installation work,
on other works that will be associated with the introduction into operation of this main resource, that is, this machine.
All these costs, until the introduction into operation of the object of basic funds, accumulate in investments in non-turnover assets.
And only when the basic funds are ready for introduction into operation, we transfer them to new qualities.
They turn into new qualities and go from investments in non-turnover assets to basic funds.
At the same time, the act of introduction into operation is being issued.
The technical commission accepts the basic funds and at the time of transfer, the act is issued.
The act is received by the accounting firm, and the accounting firm already reflects that the costs that were previously reflected in investments in non-turnover assets
became the initial cost of this object of basic funds, that is, our machine.
In addition to investments in non-turnover assets, financial investments are allocated.
Financial investments are related to the investment of the organization in securities and fixed capital of other organizations.
Financial investments can be both long-term and short-term.
The long-term financial investments that we make for a long period of time are included in the composition of non-turnover assets.
For example, long-term participation in the fixed capital of another organization.
We assume that our interaction will be more comfortable if we participate in the activities of another organization.
For example, this organization is supposed to engage in transport services, and our organization will use the services of this newly created organization.
We participate in the composition of the fixed capital, and the part that is included in the fixed capital of another organization will be our long-term financial investment.
Of course, we do this not only for the sake of the organization serving us better, but we do this in order to receive income for our long-term financial investments.
That is, dividends from the activities of the organization and the fixed capital that we have invested in our long-term financial investments.
The second group of assets is non-turnover assets.
Non-turnover assets include non-turnover funds, money funds, short-term financial investments, as well as funds in accounts.
Non-turnover assets include labor, unfinished production, ready-made products, and goods for re-sale.
Labor is related to raw materials, fuel, energy, and so on.
The items of labor lose their initial value or are re-used during production.
They are fully consumed in the production cycle and fully transfer their value to the value of the product, unlike the main assets.
We already know that the main assets, non-turnover assets, transfer their value in parts during the lifetime of useful use.
The ready-made product is also a very important component of the turnover.
It is a product that is fully processed, meets the existing standards and technical conditions, and is accepted by the ready-made product or the customer.
The unfinished production is related to the unfinished stages of the production process, the unfinished technical tests, and the ready-made product.
The items of labor, the unfinished production, and the ready-made product are the subsequent stages of the transformation of the items of labor into ready-made products.
The items of labor, raw materials, fuel, fuel tanks, spare parts, are sent to production, where they are affected by the labor, the worker is affected by the items of labor.
And here, in the production sphere, the production of ready-made products is carried out, the release of ready-made products.
But we transfer some of the ready-made products to the warehouse, and there are industries where the unfinished production remains.
For example, the production of mouse wool, horseshoe, buttons, zippers, released for the production of jackets, coats, and suits.
In production, they are subjected to the appropriate processing, the appropriate technology.
Then the release of ready-made products from production to the warehouse.
The coat, suit, jacket, fully finished processing, is delivered to the warehouse of ready-made products.
But in the accounting, all economic transactions are carried out within a month, and at the end of the month, the accounts are closed, and the unfinished production may remain in the workshop.
For example, the coats, buttons that are not sewn, suits, in which the zippers are not inserted, and so on.
But this is what has not yet appeared, the ready-made products, not yet finished processing, not yet delivered to the warehouse, and is unfinished production.
There are a number of industries where there is no unfinished production.
For example, let's take the energy industry.
For example, the hydroelectric power plant, the thermal power plant, and so on.
As much energy as is produced, as much as is produced, and released to the consumer.
There is no unfinished production.
In fact, everything that is produced here is immediately consumed by the consumer.
Next, money is related to the turnover assets, in addition to the turnover funds.
These are the amounts of cash funds to the organization's cash register.
These are free money on the accounts, currency, special accounts of the organization in the bank.
In addition to cash funds and turnover funds, short-term financial investments are also related to turnover assets.
Earlier we talked about long-term financial investments, and, for example, about investments in the institutional capital of other organizations, in order to receive dividends from these investments.
Short-term financial investments are investments in the acquisition of shares, bonds, savings certificates, and local loans for no more than one year.
Why do we make these short-term financial investments?
In order to receive additional income.
Currently, in the inflationary conditions, there is a need to constantly invest free funds either in the activities of our organization,
and if we do not have such an opportunity, then in the activities of other organizations, through investments in the shares and bonds of these organizations.
At the same time, we receive income from these investments, and thereby compensate for the negative consequences of inflation.
The debtor's debt to the organization for goods, products, work, services, and the amount for the accountants is related to the funds in the accounts.
We must distinguish between two concepts, such as the debtor's debt and the creditor's debt.
The debtor's debt is the debt of other organizations and individuals of our organization.
That is, the debtors are those individuals and organizations that owe us.
The creditor's debt is the debt of loans, loans, and other obligations on the part of our organization to other organizations and individuals.
Creditors are the individuals and organizations that we owe.
So, the debtor's debt is part of the turnover assets of the organization, and is also part of our property.
The debtor's debt differs in terms of periods, up to 12 months, and more than 12 months after the payment, and is reflected separately in the balance.
So, let's look at the structure of the property, the composition of the property, and now we have the opportunity to decide whether we understand the terms of the definition correctly.
Please pay attention to the following example.
So, determine which group of property are the following accounting objects.
Basic materials, production equipment in workshops, building management, advance payments from accountants, cash register, patent.
Let's look at the correct answer to the question we asked.
So, we refer to non-turnover assets the production equipment in workshops, building management, patent.
Production equipment in workshops is the basic materials, building management is also the basic materials, and patent is a non-material asset.
Non-turnover assets are the basic materials, the advance payments from accountants, the debtor's debt, who is the accountant?
This is the person, the regular employee of our organization, who we have given for some purpose of advance payments. For example, advance payments for business expenses.
The accountant, having received the advance, must report on the use of this advance, or return the advance to the organization if it is not used.
The cash register is also a non-turnover asset. This is cash, which is in the register of any organization.
In any organization, a division is created, called the register, in which cash is stored, and from which cash and other funds are issued and accepted.
Let's look at the second example. In this example, we need to determine which types of property belong to the basic materials, and which to the non-material assets.
Please look at the following. Basic materials, production equipment in workshops, building management, advance payments from accountants, cash register, patent.
The correct answer is that basic materials are production equipment in workshops, building management. Non-material assets are patents.
For example, a patent for an invention. The invention was made within the framework of our organization. We have issued a patent that confirms that this invention is ours.
The copyright belongs to us.
So, we have finished looking at the composition of the property of the organization. Now let's look at the sources that form the property of the organization.
This is the fourth question in this section. Property can be organized either by the members and founders of the organization's own funds or by borrowed funds.
The capital of the organization is the capital of the institution, the capital of the reserve, the capital of the supplementary fund, and the unallocated profit.
What is the capital of the institution? It is the sum of the investment of the founders in the property in the form of money when the organization is created to ensure its activity in the size of the established documents.
Let's look at a specific example. Three participants decided to organize production activities, or some other activity.
They determine the goals of the organization's activities, what they will produce, what services they will provide, what work they will do.
Let's look at a specific example. Three participants decided to organize activities to provide transportation services to the population.
To carry out this economic activity, they determine the established capital of their organization.
One participant says that he can contribute money in the form of a contribution to the established capital.
Another has a certain fleet of transportation services and offers, say, 10 transportation services that he will contribute to the established capital.
And the third participant has, for example, a garage in which these transportation services can be located.
So, the cost assessment of all these three types of property, look, money, transportation, and real estate.
The cost assessment is the basis of the established capital.
An independent assessment is carried out of those funds that are not monetary funds.
An expert will be invited to assess the real cost, market cost of transportation and real estate.
At the same time, the total amount of contributions of the participants will be the established capital.
And the first record that will be taken into account will be related to the fact that we have three types of property.
Money, transportation, and real estate. These will be our turnover and non-turnover assets.
And their cost, the established capital, will be the source at which they are formed.
The reserve capital is created by the calculation of the net profit of the organization.
The size of the reserve capital is determined by the organization's charter, and can also be determined by law,
since there are organizations that have legislative requirements for the size of the reserve capital.
The added capital is the increase in the value of the organization's property
when re-evaluated from the emission income from the unpaid values.
Both the reserve capital and the added capital are additional types of capital that are formed during our economic activities.
And finally, the unpaid profit. This is what our organization works for.
This is the increase of our own capital.
The unpaid profit is the unpaid net profit of the year and the past years.
It can accumulate.
What is a profit?
I would like to stop here, since there is a confusion among listeners about the terms profit and income.
Profit is the increase in income over the expenses of the organization during the reporting period.
That is, when the income during the reporting period was greater than the expense.
For example, the income of the received organization from the sale of the product exceeded the expenses associated with its production.
This is the difference between the income and the cost of the product, and will be represented as a profit.
And the income is one of the types of income.
We cannot identify such terms as profit and income.
Profit is the final financial result of the organization's activities, and income is only one of the types of income.
All commercial activity is carried out to maximize the profit.
Profit is currently one of the criteria for assessing the organization's economic efficiency
and one of the criteria for assessing the adoption of management decisions.
We choose the management decision that will bring us more profit.
The second group of sources of property formation is the loan sources.
They are at the disposal of the organization for a certain period,
during which their owner must be returned with or without interest.
Loan capital consists of such basic components as long-term loans and loans, short-term loans and loans, short-term creditorship.
Short-term loans and loans are provided mainly by either credit organizations or other organizations.
These loans are provided by other organizations.
As for the short-term creditorship, it consists of many components,
including the loan to suppliers and contractors, the loan to the labor payments personnel,
the loan to taxes and fees, the loan to state and non-budget funds, and other creditorship loans.
All types of this short-term creditorship are associated with business turnover traditions.
For example, the debt to the labor payments personnel.
Why does it exist and is a normal phenomenon?
The fact is that it has traditionally developed that the worker first promotes the organization or enterprise with his labor,
that is, produces the product, and then, for example, in January, he sews a coat, jacket, suit.
And only in February he receives the salary, that is, first labor, then labor payment.
Therefore, the presence of short-term creditorship to the labor payments personnel is not something exclusive, not something unusual.
Another thing is that in the absence of compliance with the labor law, many employers used this opportunity in their interests,
in particular, they did not pay the salary to the personnel on time,
and used these funds as a source of property formation for, for example, short-term financial investments in their interests.
But the state must guard the interests of the workers, in particular, the labor code,
which is currently in force in the Russian Federation, guarantees the worker a temporary salary.
And in this case, the debt to the personnel cannot be used for any other purposes.
So, we have now discussed what the property of an organization is, and what the sources of this property are.
Property includes non-returnable assets, and returnable assets, the sources of the organization, include their own capital and borrowed capital.
And now you are ready to complete the task from the workbook.
The task from the workbook
So, you have completed the task from the workbook, and there you were able to practice the division of property and bonds into groups of property and bonds.
Why did we do this? We did this to understand how the accountant forms a balance.
After all, it is the property and bonds, as we said earlier, that are the objects of accounting observation.
It is the property and bonds that are reflected in the accounting balance, in the main form of accounting reporting.
The fifth question in this section is the balance as a form of generalizing the property and bonds of the organization.
The accounting balance is used to generalize the property of the organization and the sources of its formation to a specific reporting date.
The types of the accounting balance are the periodic balance, the annual balance, the introductory, the divisional, and the liquidation.
For example, the introductory balance would be made at the time of the creation of our organization.
Remember, we talked to you about three participants who decided to organize their business.
And they brought three types of property. Money, transport, and real estate. The object of real estate is a garage.
So, at the time of the creation of the organization, at the date of the registration of the organization in the Unified Register of Legal Persons,
the accounting balance would be made.
And it reflected these three types of property, money, transport, real estate, as well as the statutory capital as the source of the formation of these types of property.
The periodic balance is made by the accountant every month, every quarter.
The quarterly balance is submitted to the tax authorities in a mandatory order.
The annual balance is the accounting balance based on the results of the calendar year.
The calendar year starts on January 1 and ends on December 31.
The annual balance is made in the first quarter of the next year.
The divisional and liquidation balances are special types of balances.
They are made when some types of reorganization of our organization, of our enterprise occur.
The divisional balance is made when our organization is allocated or divided into a number of organizations.
The liquidation balance is made when we either liquidate our organization in court or voluntarily.
The liquidation and divisional balances are made on the date of the liquidation or division.
That is, at the time of the inclusion of records on the division or liquidation into a single register of legal entities.
And they show the remains of our property and obligations on this particular date.
The accounting balance in its structure is a two-sided table, which consists of the asset and the passive.
The left part of the balance reflects the subject composition, location and use of our property and is called the asset.
The right part shows the amount of funds invested in the economic activity of the organization and the form of participation in the creation of property.
This part is called the passive balance.
In the balance, the equality of the results of the asset and the passive balance is necessary,
since both parts of the balance show the same property, but grouped by different features.
In the asset, by the material composition and functional role, for example, we talked about transport, money, non-material assets, and so on.
And in the passive, according to the sources of the formation, for example, the fixed capital, loan, reserve capital.
Five sections are allocated in the balance.
Two in the asset, these are non-returnable assets and returnable assets, and three sections in the passive.
The numbering of the sections continues. The third section is the capital of the reserve, the fourth is the long-term obligations and the fifth is the short-term obligations.
Let's do another example that will allow us to determine which section of the balance the following types of property and obligations are related to.
Based on this example, you will be able to understand how you have learned the material of the first four questions.
So, let's list the types of property and obligations that we will allocate in the sections of the accounting balance.
Transport, money, company building, patent, materials, fixed capital, short-term bank loan, employment for labor pay, employment for taxes and fees.
The correct answer will be the following answer.
So, here is the structure or form of our balance, which is used at the moment.
The asset, the non-returnable assets. As you can see, the non-returnable assets are attributed here.
The non-returnable assets. Then, the fixed capital. There are no long-term obligations in our organization, but there are short-term obligations, which you can also see included in this fifth section.
At the moment, you are ready to complete the following tasks from the workbook. Please, get to work.
Accounting Balance
So, in the first section, we talked with you about the generalization of the property and obligations of the organization and the allocation of the accounting balance.
You were able to group the property and obligations in the first task, and also to make the simplest accounting balance in the second task.
In the second section of this topic, we will dwell on the accounting balance and the method of double record.
The first question in this topic will be about the content and structure of accounting accounts.
What is an accounting account? It is a way of reflecting the current economic operations.
For each property and obligation, a separate account with its name and serial number is opened.
Each account is a two-sided table. The left side of the account is called a debit, and the right side is called a credit.
These two words have already lost their previous meaning. They arose during the Roman Empire and the emergence of the Latin language.
Now their purpose is as follows. We will consider it later.
So, according to the structure, the accounts are divided into active, passive and actively passive.
In an active account, a debit means an increase in property, and a credit is its use for a purpose, that is, a decrease.
In a passive account, the sources of property formation are reflected, and a credit means an increase in the source, and a debit means its decrease.
In each account, the turnover of the debit and credit is calculated monthly as the amount of economic operations.
The initial and final balance is indicated at the beginning and end of the month. This is the balance of property or obligations.
So, let's look. Here is the structure of an active account. As you can see, there are two sides – debit and credit.
The initial balance shows the presence of funds at the beginning of the month.
Then, economic operations are reflected for the month, both in the debit and credit.
At the end of the month, the accountant displays the turnover of the debit and credit.
They are calculated as the amount of economic operations that were in the debit and credit.
Then, the final balance is displayed.
For example, the account of the cash register, which reflects cash and cash funds in the register of our organization.
We had 1,000 rubles at the beginning of the month, 5,000 rubles were received to the cash register, and 4,000 rubles were given for economic needs and travel expenses.
Then, the balance at the end of the month will be 1,000 rubles, plus 5,000 rubles for the debit and minus 4,000 rubles for the credit.
So, the final balance will be 2,000 rubles.
So, pay attention. The final balance in the active account will be calculated according to the formula.
The final balance is equal to the initial balance plus the turnover of the debit and minus the turnover of the credit.
The structure of the passive account also consists of two parts – debit and credit.
But as we said earlier, the growth of our passive account is reflected by the credit.
The initial balance is reflected by the credit.
Then, economic operations can be both in the debit and credit, and the final balance is displayed by the credit.
For example, we talked about the regular capital, which is the source of the formation of our property.
The regular capital is a passive account.
And if we talk about the initial balance according to the regular capital, if we talk about the growth of the regular capital, for example, 100,000 rubles is the initial balance according to the regular capital.
The increase in the regular capital amounted to 50,000 rubles this month.
And the decrease in the regular capital amounted to 50,000 rubles this month.
Then the initial balance plus the credit turnover minus the debit turnover will be the final balance.
And this will be 150,000 rubles in our example.
Pay attention to the formula for calculating the final balance in the passive account.
The final balance is the initial balance plus the credit turnover minus the debit turnover.
So, you are ready to complete the next two tasks from the workbook.
They are dedicated to the active and passive accounts.
In these tasks, you will learn to reflect the economic operations on the debit and credit of active and passive accounts.
The next topic is about the correspondence of accounts and accounting, as an element of the accounting system, as well as the algorithm of accounting.
First, let's focus on the most important concepts.
First of all, the rules of accounting.
We talked about the double record in the first chapter.
What is the double record?
The double record is as follows.
Each economic operation is reflected on the accounts twice, because it affects two accounts.
On the debit of one account and on the credit of another account for the same amount.
Why?
Because each economic operation affects our property at the same time.
At the same time, the property changes during its movement, for example.
Or our obligations.
Or property and obligations.
The double record method is associated with such important concepts as the correspondence of accounts and accounting.
The correspondence of accounts is a relationship between accounts that arose with the double record method.
Accounting is the process of the correspondence of accounts, when the same operation is recorded on the debit of one account and on the credit of another account.
The accounting is based on the primary accounting documents.
The primary accounting documents are the legal basis for the fixation of the economic operation in the account.
To make an accounting for any economic operation, it is necessary to determine the essence of the economic operation.
The essence of the economic operation is the phenomenon, that is, the economic changes in the property or obligations of the organization.
Further, according to the account plan, and the account plan operates on the territory of the Russian Federation for all commercial organizations.
The typical account plan is unified, and on the basis of it, the organization already builds its own account plan.
According to the account plan, the accounts on the debit and credit of which this economic operation should be reflected should be chosen.
The third procedure is the distribution of the economic operation into the selected accounts.
In the manual processing of the accounting, it was a difficult procedure, because during the distribution, the main technical errors of accounting were created.
When using computer programs to reflect economic operations, the distribution is done automatically by the program itself.
Therefore, the technical errors that occurred during the distribution of the operation in various magazines are excluded.
For example, let's consider a specific operation.
We agreed to receive the materials from the supplier, the accounts for which are not paid.
What happened? Let's look at the economic essence of this economic operation.
First, let's decide whether our property has changed or our obligations have changed, or both property and obligations have changed.
As we can see, here this economic operation affected both property and obligations.
As property, we see the materials that have come to us, that is, our property is increasing.
At the same time, the accounts for these materials are not paid, and therefore our obligations to the supplier have also increased.
As we can see, the economic essence of this economic operation is the increase in property and the increase in obligations.
Now, if we look at the typical account plan of a commercial organization, we will see that the materials are reflected in the account for the tenth, and the obligations to the suppliers are reflected in the account for the sixtieth.
Having chosen these two accounts, the accountant simultaneously transfers the amount of the economic operation to the account for the tenth, for example, 50 thousand rubles, 50 thousand rubles of materials have come to us,
and to the account for the sixtieth, the obligation that was formed during this economic operation, the amount of 50 thousand rubles.
So, why did technical errors occur? The fact is that these are two different accounting registers. The account for the tenth was reflected in one magazine, the account for the sixtieth in another magazine.
The accountant first manually transferred 150 thousand rubles to the account for the tenth, but there was a time difference between transferring the same amount to him, but already to another magazine.
And this moment was due to the fact that there could be some circumstances that distracted the accountant, and he did not transfer the necessary amount to the account for the sixtieth, and this led to technical errors.
Now, in the conditions of computer processing of data in the account, such a technical error is already excluded.
Let's move on to the third question of the second section. Let's give a characteristic of economic operations.
All economic operations that occur in the process of economic activity, one way or another, affect the accounts of the accounting, one way or another, affect the balance of assets and passives.
But at the same time, the value of the asset and the passive, the equality, the values can change, and the equality of the asset and the passive is not violated.
We have already told you about an important rule that exists in the accounting balance, the equality of the assets and passives of the balance.
The fact is that the asset and the passive are the same types of property, only grouped by different characteristics.
The asset is based on the composition and placement, the passive is based on the sources of formation, that is, what means are used to form our type of property.
Therefore, economic operations affect the value of the assets and passives themselves, but do not violate the equality of the asset and the passive.
Let's look at the economic operations groups that we can now highlight to study the impact of these economic operations on the structure of the balance, the structure of the asset, the structure of the passive, and at the same time on the asset and the passive.
So, depending on the nature of the changes in the balance, economic operations can be divided into four groups.
The first group of operations covers two assets of the balance, that is, plus asset and minus asset for the same amount.
Let's look at a specific example. For example, the organization's account received money for the payment of the salary to the workers for 80,000 rubles.
So, we will follow the algorithm that we have defined above, that is, how to make accounting management.
The first thing we start with is to understand the economic essence of this economic operation. What happened during this economic operation?
The money was touched, that is, it is a certain type of our property. But what happened to this money? Did they decrease or increase in our organization?
No, we do not see any decrease or increase in this money in our organization. How much money was in our organization, only what remained.
Only their location has changed. They were in our account, and as a result of taking them from the account to the cash register, they changed their location.
And now they are in the organization's cash register. That is, the type of property, money, has been touched, but the amount of this property has not changed, only its location within the organization itself has changed.
How do we reflect now? What accounts will we choose? Let's look at the typical account plan of a commercial organization.
The account of the 50th cash register serves to reflect cash in the organization's cash register, and the account of the 51st account is intended to reflect the money on the bank accounts.
Both these accounts, both 50th and 51st, are active, so the increase in the active account on the credit is reflected in the debit, its decrease.
The cash register's debit of the 50th account has increased, the account of the account account has decreased, that is, the credit of the 51st account.
At the same time, how did this affect the balance? The plus asset and the minus asset occurred for the same amount. According to the balance article, the money.
The second group of operations is associated with the change of the balance passive article, that is, plus passive and minus passive for the same amount.
Let's look at this operation again using a specific example. The conditions of the task are as follows.
Part of the net profit of 40,000 rubles is directed to the increase of reserve capital by the decision of the shareholders' meeting.
Let's go back to the accounting wiring algorithm. Let's find out the economic essence of the economic operation.
In this case, we have our sources of investment. Both these sources of investment are our own funds.
Here we are talking about reserve capital, which during the economic operation increases by 40,000 rubles, and about net profit, which by the decision of the shareholders' meeting is partially directed to the increase of reserve capital.
The net profit is also the source of our property. That is, we see that the reserve capital increases, and the net profit decreases.
We find accounts that will correspond to these sources of property formation. In terms of accounts of a commercial organization, this is the 82nd account, reserve capital, and the 84th account, undistributed profit or undisclosed loss.
In this case, we are dealing with passive accounts. The 82nd account is a passive account, and the 84th account is an active passive account, but it also means our sources of investment.
Therefore, we reduce the passive of this operation. So, on the debit of a passive account, there is a decrease in obligations or sources, and on the credit, there is an increase.
Then the accounting procedure for this economic operation will have the form of a debit of the 84th account and a credit of the 82nd account. That is, minus the passive, since the debit shows a decrease, and plus the passive, since the credit of the 82nd account shows its increase.
The third group of operations is associated with the change of the assets and passives of the balance at the same time, and in the direction of increase. That is, plus the asset and plus the passive for the same amount.
Let's look at a specific example. We have already considered this example above, so I think it will be easier for you to perceive it. Again.
Suppliers received and deposited the materials for the amount of 10,000 rubles. The accounts are not paid. Here is an increase in the assets and an increase in the obligations for this economic operation.
The materials are reflected in the account for 10,000 rubles, and the accounts with the suppliers and contractors are on the account for 60,000 rubles. Moreover, the account for 10,000 rubles is active, and the debit shows its increase, and the account for 60,000 rubles is passive, and the credit also shows an increase in our obligations to the supplier.
Therefore, during this economic operation, we see plus the asset and plus the passive for 10,000 rubles.
I would like to draw your attention to the following. The first two types of operations, the first group and the second group, they only affected the assets, plus the asset and minus the asset. The second group only affected the passives, plus the passive and minus the passive.
But they did not affect the change in the balance of the assets and passives. Look, the asset is 80,000 rubles, and the asset is 80,000 rubles. The sum of the assets and the passive did not change.
The second group of operations, minus the passive for 40,000 rubles and plus the passive for 40,000 rubles, the sum of the assets and the passive did not change. As for the third operation, we had an increase of the total sum of 10,000 rubles, the asset and the total sum of the passive for 10,000 rubles.
If before this economic operation, the sum of the asset was 100,000 rubles, then after this economic operation, the sum of the asset and the passive balance will be 110,000 rubles.
The third type of operation affects the value of the assets and passives, without violating their equality.
The fourth group of operations is the change in the assets and passives, but in the direction of reduction, that is, minus the asset and minus the passive for the same amount.
Let's look at a specific example of this group of operations. The cash register issued a salary to the staff for 80,000 rubles. Let's see what happened to our property and our obligations.
First, we will touch on the type of property as money. They decreased in the cash register for 80,000 rubles. At the same time, the obligations to our workers in terms of labor payment also decreased by 80,000 rubles.
We find accounts on which this economic operation will be reflected. The cash register account is already known to us, it is the 50th account, it is active.
But the account of the calculation with the staff on labor payment is found according to the typical plan of accounts, it is the 70th account. At the same time, the accounting record will have the following type.
The 70th account debit, minus the passive, our obligations to the workers decreased. And the 50th account credit, minus the asset, the money in the cash register decreased.
This group of operations affects the balance currency itself, that is, the purpose of the balance, the balance asset and the balance passive.
If after the previous operation, as we said, for example, the balance currency will be 110,000 rubles, then after this operation the balance currency will decrease by 80,000 rubles and will already be 110,000 minus 80,000, 30,000 per asset and 30,000 per passive.
Thus, during the accounting month, each economic operation either affects the balance article, but does not affect the balance currency, or affects both the balance article and the balance currency.
And now you are ready to complete the next two tasks from the workbook. They are associated with the reflection of economic operations on the accounts of the accounting record.
I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the accounts of the accounting record are filled starting with the balance. First, the initial balance is paid, then the economic operations that were during the accounting month on the debit and credit of each account are paid.
After that, you withdraw the turnover of the debit and credit, and then, according to the formulas that we have considered above, you determine the final balance for each account.
I hope you have completed the tasks from the workbook. Let's move on to the last, third section of our topic. And this third section is associated with the synthetic and analytical accounting.
First of all, let's decide what synthetic and analytical accounts are. We are already familiar with one of the characteristics of the classification of accounts. Remember, we talked earlier in the previous section about the classification of accounts by structure.
And we divided all the accounts of the accounting record into active, passive and actively passive. In this case, we will divide the accounts depending on the degree of detail of the indicators that are carried out in them.
In the accounting record, three types of accounts are used to obtain various indicators by degree of detail. Synthetic, analytical and sub-accounts.
Synthetic accounts contain generalized indicators of property and obligations and operations in the monetary expression. For example, the 0.1 account, the main funds, shows us the initial value of the main funds of our organization.
The 0.1 account shows us the value of the materials in the warehouses of our organization. The 0.43 account shows us the value of the finished product in the warehouses of the finished product.
The 0.50 account shows us the value of the money in the cash register of our organization. And so on.
In synthetic accounts, the information about the property is presented only in the monetary expression. Whatever type of property this account may be, it does not generalize.
For example, the 0.1 account, the main funds. You remember, we talked about the main funds of the transport, computer, building, etc.
In the 0.1 account, we will not see the types of the main funds of our organization, we will see only their total value.
The 0.1 account is similar. In the 0.1 account, we do not know what materials are in our warehouses and whether our production is provided with materials for continuous operation. But we know the total value of these materials.
That is, synthetic accounts generalize our property with the basis of expression. Analytical accounts detail the content of synthetic accounts on individual types of property and obligations, which are expressed by natural, monetary and labor indicators.
For example, we talked about materials. On the one hand, it is important for us to know the value of all the materials in our warehouse. On the other hand, it is also important for us to know the amount of materials we have for the control of the availability of our production.
Analytical accounts allow us to organize a study on the types of materials, their location, we can have a large warehouse, and we must clearly imagine where one or another type of material is located in our organization.
Analytical accounts allow us to reflect this information, which is quantitative and quantitative.
Subaccounts are intermediate accounts between synthetic and analytical accounts. They are designed for additional grouping of analytical accounts within one synthetic account.
Let's look at an example of the interconnection of synthetic accounts, subaccounts and analytical accounts.
According to the typical account plan, subaccounts can be opened to account 10. For example, 10.1 drop of raw materials, 10.2 drop of purchased semi-finished products, 10.3 drop of fuel, 10.4 drop of tarot, and so on.
The organization itself, that is, the accounting apparatus of the organization, can decide which subaccounts to add or, perhaps, to invent its own subaccounts.
The fact is that the introduction of analytical accounts is a prerogative of the accounting of the organization.
Subaccounts can be detailed by analytical accounts. For example, it can be detailed by the types of fuel. 10.3 drop is oil, 10.3 drop is coal, 10.3 drop is gas, 10.3 drop is tarot, and so on.
Detailization or the name of the analytical account can be different. For example, according to the physical properties of this fuel, we can allocate 10.3 drop of liquid fuel, 10.3 drop of gas fuel, and 10.3 drop of solid fuel.
Different types of fuel will be related to these analytical accounts. For example, 10.3 drop of solid fuel can include coal, tar, wood, and other types of fuel.
Analytical accounts show us how many of these types of fuel are located. But whether these analytical accounts should be opened or not, is decided by the organization itself, by its accounting.
But if these accounts are organized and open, then they are registered in the working plan of accounts. Their purpose is fixed and described in the working plan of accounts.
In small enterprises, in organizations of medium scale, there is no need to make an analytical account for a number of accounts. Then analytical accounts will not open to synthetic accounts.
A synthetic account is a general data account, and it is carried out on synthetic accounts. An analytical account is an account on analytical accounts, grouping detailed information about the property and obligations within each synthetic account.
An analytical account allows us to control the security of the enterprise with resources, to control the fulfillment of obligations to us, for example, our buyers, and our obligations to our creditors, for example, to our suppliers.
We talked about the account of suppliers and contractors in the 60th. We are not interested in the entire co-operative assessment of our obligations to suppliers and contractors, but we are interested in which supplier and contractor and how much money we owe and for what work or service was delivered to us.
Let's see how a synthetic and analytical account is organized at enterprises.
A synthetic and analytical account is organized in such a way that their indicators control each other and, in the end, they coincide.
They are used to record, in parallel, based on the same primary accounting documents, but with a different degree of detail, on synthetic accounts only in the base expression, on analytical accounts in the quantitative expression and in the places of placement.
There is an inextricable quantitative connection between synthetic and analytical accounts.
It is as follows. The fact is that the results on analytical accounts should completely coincide with the synthetic account to which these analytical accounts are opened.
The turnover notices are used to control the correctness of the record of economic operations on accounts in a month.
The turnover notices on synthetic accounts are the results of turnover and balance on all synthetic accounts in a month.
In this turnover notice, the final lines of the notice are the controllers.
In the notice, we must check three basic equations.
The first equation is that the sum of all the initial debit balance amounts should be equal to the sum of all the initial credit balance amounts on all synthetic accounts.
Why? We already know that the balance of the assets and the passive balance amounts are equal.
The initial debit and initial credit balance amounts show us the balance of the assets, the passive balance amounts show us the balance of the credit balance amounts.
The second equation is that the sum of all the initial debit and all the initial credit balance amounts is equal to the sum of all the initial credit balance amounts on all synthetic accounts.
Why? We already know that.
The economic operation, although it affects both sides, it affects them evenly.
Therefore, the turnover of the initial debit balance amounts, the sum of all the initial debit balance amounts, will be equal to the sum of all the initial credit balance amounts on all synthetic accounts.
That is, the change of the assets and passives in the account month occurs for the same amount, for the debit and credit of the corresponding accounts.
The third equation is related to the first equation.
We talked about the initial balance amounts, and here we have the final balance amounts.
The final balance amounts of all the accounts must be equal to the final balance amounts of all the accounts.
Because the assets and passives of the balance remain equal to each other at the end of the month.
The turnover of the analytical account is separate for each synthetic account.
It is intended to monitor the state and movement of individual types of assets and obligations.
Analytical accounts allow us to control the security of our enterprise with specific types of goods and material values.
For example, we talked about the production of sewing. We sew a coat, a jacket and a suit.
We talked about the fact that the coat will never become a finished product until it is finished processing and until buttons are sewn to it.
Imagine that buttons are finished at our enterprise.
There is a material, there are threads, there are all the other materials that are necessary for the production of the coat, but there are no buttons.
What happens? We see that the coat cannot become a finished product.
Therefore, the availability of a sufficient number of such types of materials to ensure uninterrupted production is a very important purpose of analytical accounts.
The knowledge of the analytical account allows us to control the correctness of the reflection of economic operations on certain types of assets and obligations open to one synthetic account.
Now we come to a very important point.
This is the interconnection between the accounts that reflect the current activities of the organization, its economic operations for a certain month, and the balance.
What is a balance?
It is a cut of the availability at a specific time, on a specific date of the property and obligations of our organization.
So, there is a close interconnection between the accounts and the balance.
What is it?
First, active and passive accounts are opened on the basis of the accounting balance.
Remember, we talked about the entry balance.
So, we had three types of property in our entry balance, such as money, transport and a garage.
They are reflected in the relevant articles of this balance.
And on the basis of passive accounts, we had the established capital.
And on the basis of the data of this entry balance, we opened the accounts of the accounting balance at the beginning of our activity.
What are they?
Those on which these types of property and obligations were reflected.
In our case, the money, if they were on the account, was 51.
Then, the transport and real estate are the main assets, and this is the account 01, which we also talked about earlier.
And the established capital is the account 80.
Only three accounts were opened on this entry balance.
But within a month, we reflected on these accounts and on other accounts of our economic operation.
So, the balance balance amounts are the initial balance of the synthetic accounts.
And the third very important point.
The total amount of the debut balance of the synthetic accounts is equal to the total amount of the credit balance.
Why? And we talked about this earlier.
Because the results of the asset and the balance are equal to each other.
At the end of the month, the accountant, on the basis of the initial balance of the open accounts,
turns out the final balance of each account.
We have already discussed the formulas for calculating the final balance in the previous sections.
And the final balance of the synthetic accounts is the basis for the calculation of the final balance on the first day of the next accounting period.
That is, at the beginning of the period there is a balance,
during the period for reflecting the economic operations there is an account,
withdrawal of the balance on the accounts,
and at the end of the period there is also a balance.
So, you are ready to complete the final task from our workbook.
The topic of the second lecture
Dear listeners, you have listened to the topic, the second lecture,
and I hope you have solved the tasks that were presented in our workbook.
If you have any questions, I advise you to read the materials of the lecture,
which are also presented together with the video materials.
Let's summarize what you have learned during the study of this topic.
First, we have learned about the property and obligations of the organization as an object of accounting supervision.
And we have seen that property and obligations are the basis for the accounting balance of the organization.
But the accounting balance is only a fragment, a momentary reflection of the state of our organization at a specific time.
During the accounting month, the accountant reflects the economic operations on the accounts of the accounting account.
And the second part of our topic was dedicated to the accounts of the accounting account,
their classification and the order of the economic operations on the accounts.
And finally, the third part.
In the third part, we focused on the organization of the synthetic and analytical accounting
and showed the relationship between the accounts of the accounting account and the accounting balance, both quantitative and meaningful.
I hope that the knowledge you have learned during the lecture will help you to contact an accountant at a more competent level,
and you will be able to find a common language and make the right management decisions.
I hope that the materials of the workbook have allowed you to master the basic knowledge in the field of practical accounting.
And you have seen how difficult the work of an accountant is and how it depends on the competent design of the primary documents,
including in the process of forming economic operations.
And you often take part in the formation of such primary documents.
You will be more attentive to the formation of primary documents and to the interaction with the accounting service.
I wish you success in your studies and in your professional activities.
All the best. Goodbye.